We are at the point where, regardless
of the tools we said, you
told us the portals, educational
centers, the jeanners, the spontaneous
candidatures, the internal
or dynamic candidatures like
yours, that you attract people
on social networks and do experiences,
regardless of that comes
a time when you have candidates,
many candidates in some cases
and I will transmit our
experience, is that you see
that you have, imagine,
a hundred candidates in a
mailbox, a hundred curriculum,
and you have to devote
an effort in time and mental
effort to pass from
those hundred to hire
one, which is sometimes
overwhelming, then
we need a process.
Exactly, it has to be a very structured
process just for that, to take it
away that it is something overwhelming.
So, clearly, what are the
phases?
You have an inbox with 400
curricula, then the job portals
allow you to get a first screw,
you put a series of filters
and filter you from 800 candidates,
filter you 20 curricula,
yet they are many.
Then you do what you do is those
20 curricula, you do a crunch
your curriculum, see which one
is me and maybe imagine that you
have 10.
At the time you have 10, you have
to contrast several things,
first you have to call them,
you have to make a phone
interview to contrast
several things.
First the availability, because there
are times that maybe people have
applied and maybe the next day
or at the time their situation has
changed.
Then you have to call them by phone
to these 10 people to contrast, first
the availability, second
that they are still interested in
the offer, because you may explain
them briefly the offer and maybe
some says, because it is that
I thought it was in Madrid Capital,
and no, no, it is that I do
not have availability to travel,
then for this you have to
make telephone interviews.
These interviews are a first step,
so my recommendation is that they
be as much as 15 minutes and half
an hour, where you effectively
contrast the candidate's
availability, motivations and
interests and place him in a
face-to-face interview,
which is the second phase of
the process.
Once you have made those short
phone interviews, you place
them in a face-to-face
way and you do an interview.
Usually we advise that
you do that interview with
the person you are reporting
to, because you gain efficiency.
There is usually a human resource
person and another business person
in which for an hour or
two hours as much do the
interview to the candidate.
This is the second part of the
process, the interviews.
How many candidates are you interviewing
for more or less?
Around 10 as much, between 5 and 10 candidates.
Now we'll explain then how an interview
is done, but you interview 5
or 10 candidates and you make the
decision, you choose the final
candidate.
Once that is chosen with the business,
then you have a meeting with the
manager and you say you make a
brief report of all the candidates,
of each one's strengths,
like a daff of each of the
candidates.
And you make the decision.
And then it's the final phase of the
process that is, you call the candidate
to tell him that he has been the
selected candidate and make
him the offer.
And also manage the time limits for
incorporation, because if it is
a candidate who is working he
has to give a preaviso, also to manage
the time limits and that we do
not get the process.
Because the process from when we
started to count it until we normally
finish it, depending
on the position, usually takes
a month.
Between you receive candidatures,
you make the shortlist, then the
telephone interviews, then the face-
to-face and then you choose it, more
or less a month later.
It also depends on the position
you are looking for, how specific it
is, whether there are many people
with that profile of the market
and others.
The concrete tips that we can apply,
look at, that I have liked is,
there are things that people who have
no experience, it is good to advance
it and it is that, you can
make maybe a longlist, you
will fall many.
That is, don't give things,
of course, because of that longlist
you have, there will be many who
have applied and already have
work, who have applied without
knowing.
That when you tell him a little, they
will fall or that when they tell
you here, they will fall to you.
So, it's ultra inefficient to
get you interviewing your entire
longlist because you're doing it.
Then you have to make a pre-
crypt, which helps a lot, that
can be done by phone.
And it helps, then that longlist,
because we take out pam pam pam pam
pam and we stay with 10, for example,
between 5 and 10.
And then these yes, we call
them, we interview them, you have given
us guidelines to be more efficient,
that here you have to look for efficiency
because all this consumes
very many resources.
Don't do what has always
been done of, especially
large companies calling candidates,
first human resources.
Then it goes a lot of time and
then they call you business.
You already have work.
So, the human resources manager
has wasted time interviewing someone
who already has a job.
That is, that has found work after,
a maximum inefficiency.
Human Resources in Business.
If it is a very complicated process,
then it is a second.
That is, with certain, with the management
committee, for example, to make
decisions and more.
You have to be very clear, the
first curricular crypt helps you
to the job portals.
I think I'll pick out some, I know, from
20 to 200 candidates.
Then, then you do a curriculum
that you contrast with a telephone
interview.
Many of them will be caught up in
different situations that...
That is.
That is, what you can't do
is, first, a shortlist, without
considering that many will
fall for you.
That is.
Because half of them are already...
When you make the shortlist,
you've had to have made
a scheduled phone interview.
Then, you're already getting a
shortlist that you interview in person.
In this case, as I mentioned before,
now there are a number of tools
on the market that allow you
to make a face-to-face interview
remotely.
So, that is a more agile
or efficient tool to shorten
time in the process.
In any case, the interview, whether
on-the-face or at a distance,
must be given.
And the same, for example, an hour or
two hour interview with someone in
the business.
After that interview, you are already
out of business and you have a decision.
Business and human resources with
a decision.
Call the candidate to inform
him of the decision.
This is important.
Why is?
Because if you let the candidate spend
a lot of time, it may have gone
out of work or anything, or they
have made a counter offer
or something else.
So, also why it is important
to use all the tools that
are on the market to shorten time
and maximize the efficiency
and effectiveness of these
processes.